This document describes the software requirements for an academic weather data recording application (WDA). This specification is intended for the designer, developer, and maintainer of the WDA.
The function of the WDA is to allow a course instructor to create a class in which the students can enter weather data on specified days. For each class, the instructor chooses which data is required on those days. The students of that class enter the data on the required day. The system keeps track of the student’s grade.
The remainder of this document is organized as follows: There will be some definitions of important terms in the next subsection. The General Description contains a general overview of the WDA. The Requirements section identifies the general, user interface, functional, and database requirements.
Consists of variable lists for specified days, weather modules, and student roster. Each list is of variable length. Lists specified days and student roster can be anything the instructor wants so long as the data type is valid. List student roster is a selection from a preset list of options.
The user shall be defined as a person using the WDA. The user will not be required to have previous knowledge of the WDA. The types of Users will be: Students and Instructors. These users will be granted access to specific pages on a successful login. 
The Instructor is a User that will control Classes in the WDA. Student is a User that will enter weather data. These Users are college undergraduate and graduate students.
Input required from students. There are four numerical inputs under Weather Data: Air Temperature, Wet Bulb Temperature, Relative Humidity, Dew Point Temperature. The other modules are Present Weather Conditions, Cloud Cover, Cloud Observations, Unusual Clouds, and Features.
The instructor is able to login using their North Dakota State University Central Authentication System username and password. The Instructor is then able to manage different courses, and changing which Weather Modules the students have to enter data for if they choose.
The student is able to login using their North Dakota State University Central Authentication System username and password. The student then is able to submit a report that the instructor has required.
The Instructor shall be able to maintain multiple class rosters. The Instructor shall be able to select weather modules required as input from Students in a Class. The Instructor shall be able manually add Students to a Class roster by either using a csv file or manual input of required fields. The Instructor shall be able to view selected Weather Modules when viewing class information. The Instructor shall be able to remove report days individually.
The student input shall be checked by algorithms in order to ensure that the data entered is valid. Student summary shall only display Weather Modules required for input by Class. Student Submit Report page should only display assigned Weather Modules.
Each Weather Module shall be on a separate line and have a checkbox for the instructor to choose that module for students to report. The correct Weather Module selected by the instructor will then be the only module(s) to show up on the student’s report.
When the student is entering report data, the Weather Modules shall be on separate pages in the order: Weather Data, Present Weather Conditions, Cloud Cover, Cloud Observations, Unusual Clouds and Features, with the header being their name.
A description of the specific requirement. A description of the inputs that the software system gets. A description of what the software system should do with the input. A description of the response/new state of the software system. 
The Instructor may add a Class to the database on the Add Course tab. Name of the Class, start date, end date, weekly report days, weather modules. Information is stored in the database. Return to course management page.
Upon attempted submission, Air Temperature shall be validated. A number that represents the current Air Temperature in degrees Celsius. Confirms that Air Temperature is less than 50 degrees Celsius and greater than -50 degrees Celsius. If valid, Student may move on. If invalid, the message “invalid” is displayed. 
Upon attempted submission, Wet Bulb Temperature shall be validated. A number that represents the current Wet Bulb Temperature in degrees Celsius. Confirms that the entered Wet Bulb Temperature is less than 50 degrees Celsius, greater than -50 degrees Celsius, and less than or equal to Air Temperature. If valid, Student may move on. If invalid, the message “invalid” is displayed.
Upon attempted submission, Relative Humidity shall be validated. A number that represents the current Relative Humidity in a percentage. Confirms that the entered Relative Humidity value is less than 100 and greater than 0. If valid, Student may move on. If invalid, the message “invalid” is displayed.
Upon attempted submission, Dew Point Temperature shall be validated. A number that represents the current Dew Point Temperature in degrees Celsius. Confirms that the entered Dew Point Temperature is less than 50 degrees Celsius, greater than -50 degrees Celsius, and less than or equal to Wet Bulb Temperature. If valid, Student may move on. If invalid, the message “invalid” is displayed.
There is one Class that holds the Weather Modules. Saves summary reports for next time login of Students including the new Weather Modules. A Student contains reports which contains the modules from the course modules.